Training Data
==========================

## About

In the challenge, the task of the participants will be the following: given a XING user, the recommender should predict those job postings (items) that the user will interact with in the next week. 

The training dataset is supposed to be used for experimenting and training your models. You can split the 
interaction data into training and test data. For example: you can leave out the last 
complete week (of the year) from the interaction data and then try to predict whether 
a given user will _positively_ interact with an item within that week. Relevant items 
are those items on which a user clicked, bookmarked or replied (`interaction_type` = 1, 2 or 3). 


## Anonymization, pseudonymization, noise

The training dataset is a semi-synthetic sample of XING's dataset, i.e. it is not complete and enriched with 
noise in order anonymize the data. For example: 

- the dataset contains artificial users
- the dataset contains only a fraction of XING users and job postings
- IDs are used instead of raw text for almost all attribute values (pseudonymization)
- some attributes of the users may have been removed or flipped to _NULL_ / _unknown_. 
- not all interactions of a user are contained in the dataset
- some of the interactions are artificial (= have actually not been performed by the user)
- timestamps have been shifted (but the order of interactions is kept)

Attempting to identify users or to reveal any private information about the users or information about 
the business from which the data is coming from is strictly forbidden (cf. [Rules](http://2016.recsyschallenge.com/)).

## Dataset Description 

### Impressions 

Which items were shown by the existing XING job recommender to which user in which week of the year. Only parts of the impressions that were generated by XING's job recommender are considered: a fraction of the impressions on the Web ([start-page](https://xing.com) and [xing.com/jobs](https://xing.com/jobs)), some for mobile, none for emails. For those impressions there is no guarantee that the item was in the _viewport_ of the user. Fields: 

- `user_id` ID of the user (points to `users.id`)
- `year`
- `week` of the year
- `items` is a comma-separated list (not set) of items that were displayed to the user (point to `items.id`)

### Interactions

Interactions that the user performed on the job posting items. Fields: 

- `user_id` ID of the user who performed the interaction (points to `users.id`)
- `item_id` ID of the item on which the interaction was performed (points to `items.id`)
- `interaction_type` the type of interaction that was performed on the item: 
  + 1 = the user clicked on the item
  + 2 = the user bookmarked the item on XING
  + 3 = the user clicked on the _reply button_ or _application form button_ that is shown on some job postings
  + 4 = the user deleted a recommendation from his/her list of recommendation (clicking on "x") which has the effect that the recommendation will no longer been shown to the user and that a new recommendation item will be loaded and displayed to the user
- `created_at` a unix time stamp timestamp representing the time when the interaction got created


### Users 

Details about those users who appear in the above datasets. Fields: 

- `id` anonymized ID of the user (referenced as `user_id` in the other datasets above)
- `jobroles` comma-separated list of job role terms (numeric IDs) that were extracted from the user's current job titles. `0` means that there was no known jobrole detected for the user. 
- `career_level` career level ID (e.g. beginner, experienced, manager): 
  + 0 = unknown
  + 1 = Student/Intern
  + 2 = Entry Level (Beginner)
  + 3 = Professional/Experienced
  + 4 = Manager (Manager/Supervisor)
  + 5 = Executive (VP, SVP, etc.)
  + 6 = Senior Executive (CEO, CFO, President)
- `discipline_id` anonymized IDs represent disciplines such as "Consulting", "HR", etc.
- `industry_id` anonymized IDs represent industries such as "Internet", "Automotive", "Finance", etc.
- `country` describes the country in which the user is currently working: 
  + _de_ = Germany
  + _at_ = Austria
  + _ch_ = Switzerland
  + _non\_dach_ = non of the above countries
- `region` is specified for some users who have as country `de`. Meaning of the regions: see below.
- `experience_n_entries_class` identifies the number of CV entries that the user has listed as _work experiences_:
  + 0 = no entries
  + 1 = 1-2 entries
  + 2 = 3-4 entries
  + 3 = 5 or more entries
- `experience_years_experience` is the estimated number of years of work experience that the user has: 
  + 0 = unknown 
  + 1 = less than 1 year
  + 2 = 1-3 years
  + 3 = 3-5 years
  + 4 = 5-10 years
  + 5 = 10-15 years
  + 6 = 16-20
  + 7 = more than 20 years
- `experience_years_in_current` is the estimated number of years that the user is already working in her current job. Meaning of numbers: same as `experience_years_experience`
- `edu_degree` estimated university degree of the user: 
  + 0 or NULL = unknown 
  + 1 = bachelor 
  + 2 = master
  + 3 = phd
- `edu_fieldofstudies` comma-separated fields of studies that the user studied. `0` means "unknown" and `edu_fieldofstudies > 0` entries refer to broad field of studies such as _Engineering_, _Economics and Legal_,  ... 


### Items

Details about the job postings that were and should be recommended to the users. 

- `id` anonymized ID of the item (referenced as `item_id` in the other datasets above)
- `title` concepts that have been extracted from the job title of the job posting (numeric IDs)
- `career_level` career level ID (e.g. beginner, experienced, manager): 
  + 0 = unknown
  + 1 = Student/Intern
  + 2 = Entry Level (Beginner)
  + 3 = Professional/Experienced
  + 4 = Manager (Manager/Supervisor)
  + 5 = Executive (VP, SVP, etc.)
  + 6 = Senior Executive (CEO, CFO, President)
- `discipline_id` anonymized IDs represent disciplines such as "Consulting", "HR", etc.
- `industry_id` anonymized IDs represent industries such as "Internet", "Automotive", "Finance", etc.
- `country` code of the country in which the job is offered 
- `region` is specified for some users who have as country `de`. Meaning of the regions: see below.
- `latitude` latitude information (rounded to ca. 10km)
- `longitude` longitude information (rounded to ca. 10km)
- `employment` the type of employment: 
  + 0 = unknown
  + 1 = full-time
  + 2 = part-time 
  + 3 = freelancer 
  + 4 = intern
  + 5 = voluntary
- `tags` concepts that have been extracted from the tags, skills or company name
- `created_at` a unix time stamp timestamp representing the time when the interaction got created
- `active_during_test` is `1` if the item is still active (= recommendable) during the test period and `0` if the item is not active anymore in the test period (= not recommendable) 

### Regions

| ID | Name |
|:-----|:-----|
| 0 | _not specified_ | 
| 1 | [Baden-Württemberg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baden-W%C3%BCrttemberg) | 
| 2 | [Bavaria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bavaria) | 
| 3 | [Berlin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berlin) | 
| 4 | [Brandenburg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandenburg) | 
| 5 | [Bremen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bremen) | 
| 6 | [Hamburg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamburg) | 
| 7 | [Hesse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hesse) | 
| 8 | [Mecklenburg-Vorpommern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mecklenburg-Vorpommern) |
| 9 | [Lower Saxony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lower_Saxony) |  
| 10 | [North Rhine-Westphalia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Rhine-Westphalia) | 
| 11 | [Rhineland-Palatinate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhineland-Palatinate) | 
| 12 | [Saarland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saarland) | 
| 13 | [Saxony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saxony) | 
| 14 | [Saxony-Anhalt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saxony-Anhalt) | 
| 15 | [Schleswig-Holstein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schleswig-Holstein) | 
| 16 | [Thuringia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thuringia) | 

